cpp: stringizers (#138)
codewars/docs: content/languages/cpp/igloo/stringizers.md

---

# Adding Custom Stringizers

> **NOTE:** code snippets in this article omit `#inlude` directives for brevity. You must remember about including required header files!

Author: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** code snippets in this article omit `#include` directives for brevity. You must remember about including required header files!
```

//custom type
struct Point2d {
  int x, y;
  bool operator== (const Point2d& other) const {
    return x == other.x && y == other.y;
  }
};

//output stream operator
std::ostream& operator<<(std::ostream& stream, const Point2d& a)
{
  stream << '(' << a.x << ", " << a.y << ')';
  return stream;
}
```

Such definition causes that your custom type is now displayed properly, even if it's an element of a container:

```cpp
//Tests

It(should_pretty_print_custom_class_with_ostream_operator)
{
  Point2d start {0,  0};
  Point2d end   {7, -2};
  Assert::That(start, Equals(end));
}

It(should_pretty_print_vector_of_elements_of_custom_type_with_ostream_operator)
{
  std::vector<Point2d> actual   = { {0, 0}, {2, 2}  };
  std::vector<Point2d> expected = { {1, 1}  };      
  Assert::That(expected, Equals(actual));
}
```

Now your custom types are displayed properly in assertion messages:

```
  should_pretty_print_custom_class_with_ostream_operator
    Expected: equal to (7, -2)
    Actual: (0, 0)
  should_pretty_print_vector_of_elements_of_custom_type_with_ostream_operator
    Expected: equal to [ (0, 0), (2, 2) ]
    Actual: [ (1, 1) ]
```

### Stringification with `Stringizer<T>`

> Sometimes, definition of `operator <<` cannot be used for stringification. You cannot add it to types which you do not own, or you cannot re-define it types which already have it defined, but not in a way you'd like to. Or maybe you just prefer this way rather than `operator <<`. In such cases, Snowhouse framework allows you to use a `snowhouse::Stringizer<T>` template specialized for the type you want to stringify.

Author: ```suggestion
Sometimes, definition of `operator <<` cannot be used for stringification. You cannot add it to types which you do not own, or you cannot re-define it for types which already have it defined, but not in a way you'd like to. Or maybe you just prefer this way rather than `operator <<`. In such cases, Snowhouse framework allows you to use a `snowhouse::Stringizer<T>` template specialized for the type you want to stringify.
```

```cpp
//Preloaded
namespace snowhouse
{
  template<typename F, typename S>
  struct Stringizer<std::pair<F, S>>
  {
    static std::string ToString(const std::pair<F, S>& a)
    {
      std::stringstream stream;
      stream << '(' << a.first << ", " << a.second << ')';
      return stream.str();
    }
  };
}

//Tests
It(should_pretty_print_vector_of_pairs_of_custom_type)
{
  std::vector<std::pair<std::string, Point2d>> actual   = { {"A", {0, 0}}, { "B", {2, 2}}  };
  std::vector<std::pair<std::string, Point2d>> expected = { {"A", {1, 1}}  };      
  Assert::That(expected, Equals(actual));
}

```

You can get meaningful assertion messages for any `std::pair<F, T>`, as long as types `F` and `T` can also be stringified, what is usually the case for Codewars kata:

```
should_pretty_print_vector_of_pairs_of_custom_type
  Expected: equal to [ (A, (0, 0)), (B, (2, 2)) ]
  Actual: [ (A, (1, 1)) ]
```

## Additional info
 - [Getting better output for your types](https://github.com/banditcpp/snowhouse#getting-better-output-for-your-types) in Snowhouse repository.

> 

Author: Add link to kumite?

https://www.codewars.com/kumite/5f9b749a9cd7a8002dfa2f34/

Author: ```suggestion
 - [Kumite](https://www.codewars.com/kumite/5f9b749a9cd7a8002dfa2f34?sel=5f9b749a9cd7a8002dfa2f34) which illustrates how to use stringification in a kata.
```

```
  does_not_pretty_print_vector_of_type_without_stringizer
    Expected: equal to [ [unsupported type], [unsupported type] ]
    Actual: [ [unsupported type], [unsupported type] ]
```

> Not only your custom types can be affected by this issue. Many built-in, standard, or 3rd party types also cannot be stringified. Basically, every type which does not define its version of output stream operator (`operator <<`) is affected, and `std::pair` template is a very common case of such type for Codewars kata.

Reviewer: If they "cannot be stringified", we wouldn't be able to stringify them either.

Author: ```suggestion
Not only your custom types can be affected by this issue. Snowhouse may be not able to stringify many built-in, standard, or 3rd party types. Basically, every type which does not define its version of output stream operator (`operator <<`) is affected, and `std::pair` template is a very common case of such type for Codewars kata.
```
